Hey friends. I want to
thank our sponsor. Reagan, are
you struggling to replicate the
bugs and performance issues that
your customers are reporting? Plug
Regan into your web and
mobile applications right now, and
diagnose problems in minutes rather
than hours. Kiss goodbye. Having
to dig through log files
and relying on frustrated users
to report issues, make your
software development lives so much
easier using Reagan's error, crash,
and performance monitoring tools. Every
software team can create flawless
software experiences for their customers
with Regan. Try it free
today@raygun.com. That's our a Y
G U n.com. Hi, this
is Scott Hanselman. This is
another. So the Hansel minutes,
and today I'm talking with
dr. Nneka Simmons she's professor
at San Jose state university
does work in teamwork and
leadership and organizational behavior. How
are you? I'm doing well.
Good morning. Yeah. Thanks for
chatting with me today. You
did a very well received
talk at a conference called
the lead dev conference. This
is this a conference for
lead developers. Absolutely. Yes. And
you did this in, in
conjunction with your husband who
is in tech, and I've
actually had an one on
the show years ago. So
it's kind of fun to
have, have the other side
of the, the team here.
And Antwan was telling me
earlier that you all are
in what we jokingly call
a mixed marriage. My wife
and I are in a
mixed marriage, but when we
say mixed, we mean geeks
and tech people and normal
people. Are you the geek
or are you the normal
person? I think I'm the
normal person, but yeah, I'm,
I'm an, I'm an academic
and we do have some
overlaps with everyone. Definitely loves
technology at a whole different
level. So he probably reboots
the router. That's basically his
job in the house. So
what is your PhD in,
you know what? I have
a PhD in management from
Texas a and M in
college station. I am an
Aggie and I studied organizational
behavior specifically. Interesting. So it's,
so it's so fun for
me as a techie. When
I think of the, I
call them the hard skills
and we shouldn't say hard
skills or soft skills, but
things code compiles and it
either errors or it doesn't.
And that's very, very measurable
to me. And when I
think about academics and management
and leadership, it feels soft
in the sense of humans
are complicated and squishy, but
there's real data behind human
behavior. Isn't there. Absolutely. I
mean, yeah. And in some
ways people consider this, the
things that we study in
organizational behavior, organizational psychology are
concepts that are abstract, but
absolutely you can have, we
do studies, qualitative studies, quantitative
studies, and we look for
statistical significance that can definitely
and show patterns And correlations
in human behavior. Okay. So
this means that this isn't
just opinion, this isn't a
bunch of people in academia
up on a, a ivory
tower saying Pretty much. Oh
no, no, absolutely no. There's
there's data to support these
concepts and these theories that
we're investigating for sure. And
the talk that you all
did was called managing the
burnout burn down. Now I
know about burndown charts. I
know that I can set
up a schedule and I
can set up a project
and burn it, you know,
burn down to eight to
a moment. What do you,
how do you applying burnout
to burn down? Yeah, that's
a really good question. So
basically, as you said, I'm
in a mixed marriage. And
so when I want to,
now we're talking about burnout
and how we struggle to
not get to that place.
He started explaining to me
about the burndown chart, like
you just said. And basically
we, as, as we discussed
it, we realized, Oh my
goodness, this really could be
used as a framework for
this type of a phenomenon
that people are experiencing and
we can use it to
kind of help explain some
things that are very apparent
in our culture today. Okay.
So what does that, what
does that framework, how do
you think about tech burnout?
Well, basically what happens is
we have these charts and
I know everyone always talks
about there's this optimal line
in this chart now, and
I may not be using
the proper term, but he
wants to always stay below
that so he can make
sure that he's on schedule
he's on time, he's all
budget. And what happens is
with burnout is that people
focus on that and it
becomes overwhelming. And it's something
that begins to seep into
your life. And then it
can overtake you and have
a lot of negative consequences.
Yeah. When I think about
burn down charts in the
context of a project, I
think about landing an airplane.
But when I think about
burnout and I think about
it in the context of
a burn down chart, I
think about maybe crashing the
airplane if I don't maintain
altitude. Right. Absolutely. And what
happens is, you know, human
beings, I mean, you're your
biggest asset is your, your
health, your personhood. And a
lot of times we can
get so engaged in the
work that we're doing, that
we don't actually manage our
person, who we are, our
humanity, our health, our balance,
our, our mind, and we
can burn out and we
can crash just like an
airplane can. Yeah. And I
think that to my point
about how I kind of,
you know, in appropriately called
things hard skills and soft
skills is that computer people
in tech people, myself included
tend to depersonalize our person
ness and think that we
are just compilers that happen
to be, you know, made
of flesh and bone. And
we're not computers this week.
We simply can't behave like
that. We know. Absolutely. And
it's interesting that you use
the term depersonalization cause I
am an academic. So just
to make sure we're all
on the same page, there
are three dimensions of burnout
and one of them is
emotional exhaustion. And when we
talk about burnout is something
that's chronic that you feel
like you can't come out
of. And the second component
that relates to what you
just said is depersonalization. And
what happens is when you
are burned out, you, you
do lose the personhood of
people that you're working with.
So an example that we
like to use is if
you went to a nurse's
office or to a doctor's
office, an appointment, and you
said, Oh, I'm here to
see my friend. And they're
like, Oh, well the broken
leg is in room two.
Well basically you've completely dehumanized
that person. And it's just
a person or an object
that needs to be fixed.
And when you get to
a level of depersonalization in
other people, or even in
yourself, that could mean that
there is a detachment that's
happening there and you could
be overwhelmed. So you're just
focusing on lasering in on
what you can do because
you realize that, Oh my
God, I'm just spent, I
have nothing else to give.
I can only focus on
the essentials here. And sometimes
humanity and personhood gets lost
in that You think that
that's something that is worse
or exacerbated by the personalities
and the work that we
do in tech. It seems
like we refer sometimes the
tech workers as resources and
things become depersonalized well before
burnout. Like they become culturally
depersonalized, which might mean that
tech workers are more likely
to burn out. That's a
great question. And one of
the things that I want
to not discover when we're
doing research here is that
some groups that tend to
be more likely to be
burned out are those that
are engaged and to be
a person who works in
tech, you have to really,
really be engaged in your
work. And hopefully you love
it. And most of the
times you do, and you
would think that some research
or previous research said, well,
maybe engagement is the antonym
to burnout. But no, what
we really found out is
that people that are really,
really engaged are the ones
that are most susceptible to
burnout. So you're saying, is
it cultural? Absolutely. It can
be cultural because in order
for you to do, to
be a great developer, to
be a great program, or
to be a great coder,
you have to really be
involved. And that involvement that
takes you in and sucks
you in could be the
same thing that can lead
you down the road of
burnout. Oh, interesting. That is
kind of the, it's funny
how these things are counterintuitive.
Like if I give too
much, if I am too
empathetic, that's in fact what
I am doing, I'm giving
a resource, a finite resource.
So what, what is that
you say giving of yourself?
There's no real word for
one's emotional resource. Well, I
mean, I, I think one
mentioned to you that also
study creativity and to be
creative, there are, there are
three components. There are, you
have to have domain skills,
you have to have creativity
skills. And one of them
is intrinsic motivation. So if
you were to ask me,
what is it that I'm
giving? It's that intrinsic motivation,
meaning that I'm not doing
this for a reward. I'm
not doing this for a
promotion. I'm not doing this
impress anyone. I actually do
love this. And that's a
good thing. And when you
think about it, I don't
know if you love music
or not, but I know
I do. You don't have
a lot of, a lot
of times people say, Oh
man, that first album by
that artist was excellent. But
that second album, I don't
know what happened. And what
had happened is is that
when you're intrinsically motivated, you're
not distracted about anything external
to you. So that first
album from artists, they just
give their all not caring
about anything. But that second
album, a lot of times,
now you have, you know,
your boss and your manager
and the record company saying,
Oh, we've got to do
this. And you made 10 million
here. Now we need to
make 20 million there. Those external
forces come in. And then
that takes away from that
laser focus and your ability
to kind of hone in
on what you love. So
if you ask me, what
is that intangible thing that
can sometimes get out of
control? Intrinsic motivation is a
good thing, but if you
take it too far and
you can never disconnect or
turn off, it can become
something destructive in your life
That I really liked that
term. I am going to
use that. That is, that
is exactly what it is.
There is a tank of
motivation of, I think there's
also been papers and some
recent articles about the idea
of willpower is a, is
a finite resource. And oftentimes
people will say to either
a depressed person or a
person who has an issue
that they're trying to work
through, maybe they're trying to
lose weight or get, get
fit. And they said, well,
you know, just do it,
right. This is like one
of the most iconic marketing
terms of all time, just
do it, which is really
saying, ignore that this is
a finite resource and simply
push through that's. That is
a problematic statement. That is,
that is ignoring that the
gas tank is on E
keep driving. Yeah, absolutely. And
I think that one thing
that we like to talk
about is that to be
successful, you do have to
have balance. And one of
those things is to interrogate
reality. And if, a lot
of times we're so busy,
I can just think about
when I was getting my
dissertation and I had to
write the papers and I
had deadlines and all this
stuff going on. I didn't
even realize if I had
a headache or I didn't
realize if I was tired,
I would look up and
it would be midnight. And
all this time went by,
well, I loved what I
was doing and I was
completely engaged. But what was
happening is I was losing
touch with my, who I
am the core of who
I am. And in some
ways I created my best
work, but it also took
a toll on my body
as well. It's interesting that
you bring up the idea
that you were doing your
best work, you enjoying yourself,
but you didn't notice that
the tank was becoming depleted.
I think that we think
about burnout as something that
people would notice, but you
kind of just implied that
it can sneak up on
you. Absolutely. And I think
that one of the solutions
that am one, and I
like to talk about is
that one of the ways
that you can manage the
burndown is relationships. So partners
and you know, it could
be a friend, it could
be a spouse. It could,
it could be a team
member. And I know for
me, everyone can tell my
husband, I'm a Nika. You
know, maybe we need to
take a break here or
maybe we should go for
a walk or something like
that. So, yes, because we
are engaged people and we're
highly capable. There is an,
an opportunity for us to
lose touch. And we may
need others who care about
us to kind of step
in and provide some possible
solutions are possible outlets for
us to kind of disengaged,
kind of regroup, fill that
tank back up and then
dive back in. Right. And
not everyone necessarily has those
close connections on everyone has
a partner. So you have
to ask yourself, look inside
yourself and say, am I
an introvert? Or am I
an extrovert? Am I someone
who goes, where do I
go for my energy? Is
it video games? Is it
a support group? Is it
simply going outside and walking
in the sunshine, but catching
yourself and I've done it
before. I think we all
have coders or catching yourself
after six hours and not
moving in front of the
computer. And you go like,
Oh, what have I just
done? Time? Time has just
teleported me into the future
and I'm hurting. I need
to stop. Absolutely. And I
completely agree with what you
said and another book that
we we've discussed. And when
I was a book called
quiet and you're correct, that
introverts do require sometimes quiet
time to kind of rebuild
and energize and word another
mixed marriage. And that I'm
an extrovert. So when I
get, when I get, you
know, down or what have
you, I want to go
to, you know, a gathering
or to some kind of
park and go and meet
new people and talk and
do those types of things.
So yes, you're absolutely right.
Regardless of what the situation
is, you have to know
yourself, spend some time and
do the things that work
for you. If it is
video games, if it's reading
a book, if it's going
a walk, whatever it is,
we have to try to
make sure that we stay
balanced and connected with where
we are. So things don't
just overtake us out of
nowhere. Yeah. And I think
the thing that I'm hearing
in, everything that you're talking
about is this idea of
an intro and introspective analysis.
It's funny that we analyze
code. We analyze problems all
the time and we schedule
meetings to analyze problems, but
I don't know how often
coders sit down and put
up one hour meeting on
the calendar that says, analyze
myself, look inside myself and
really just sit there and
ask myself the question. What
do I need to refill
this tank? So I don't
burn out. Yeah. And I
think when you, what you
mentioned earlier about culture, I
think that it's a cultural
thing and I used to
be a consultant. I used
to work for Accenture and
I used to work for
cap Gemini, Ernst and young
as well. And I think
that if companies put a
priority on their helping their
employees pursue wellness, then that
would trickle down leaders. Leadership
starts at the top. So
if you have a company
that says, Oh, okay, we
need to do yoga or
let's schedule some yoga and
we'll have this team, or
this group from two to
we'll do that. Or, you
know, as some countries, they
spend time in Asian nations,
you know, stretching or what
have you before work. And
so it's, it's, it's a
mentality, it's a mentality. And
we do have a situation
where many of us live
in the States and we
have a Protestant work ethic
where the work itself is
valuable and it, it makes
us feel important and that
we have meaning and, and
dignity. And if we're not
working, a lot of people
feel like, well, there's no
I'm not contributing to anything.
So I'm, I'm just here.
But sometimes the best thing
that you can do for
yourself as go take a
nap, but that's not, that's
not a concept that is
really in my opinion, or
in my experience and in
my reading addressed or discussed
or implemented in a, in
a real way. And the,
in the organizations that we're
working in these days, That's
really significant. A lot of
people who listen to this
podcast are not in the
U S are not in
Western countries. So if you're
listening to this show, be
empathetic and think about how
every country is different. Every
culture is different. And you
just brought up something really
interesting that you and I,
as Americans have for better
or worse, been brought up
with this idea that the
work itself, as opposed to
recharge me. And we have
the sense of guilt that
we're not even supposed to
take vacation. How many people
do we know who have
lost vacation hours because they
filled up their bucket of
vacation hours and then forfeited
them at the end of
the year. EV everyone I
know has done that at
some point or another in
America, while it seems like
other nations are culturally more
comfortable with taking vacation unapologetically.
Absolutely. And a lot of
times it's, it's almost like
a little bit of a,
of a battle or a
badge of honor of, Oh,
I didn't, I haven't taken
any vacation or I've been
here since five in the
morning. And, and, and what
we have to realize is
that, you know, that's only
something that you can do
for so long. That's a
short term plan because you
need your best self. So
you can be the best
coder and, and really see
those nuances and see the
have vision for where we're
going with this project. And
if I'm burned out, I
really don't have the resources
to do that. So it's
kind of a, a change
of a way that we're
looking at things. I know
that there's some articles out
there where people say, you
know, I'll rebel. Then I
left work at five or
leaving work at five was
like a rebellious thing to
do. So we really have
to kind of think about
this and, and look at
it from a longterm view,
if you want your people
to be the most productive.
And in the terms that
I always think of is
people to be, you want
them to be the most
efficient and effective they can
be. We have to also
look at the wellness of
the employees and the organizations
in which they work. Hey,
friends, summers longer days and
slower pace. Invite us to
pick up a book, follow
our questions and try our
hand at something new. The
work of modern software developers
is evolving in ways that
are both challenging and rewarding.
As a developer, it's essential
that you cultivate a security
mindset and to help we've
put together a collection of
information, security books, podcasts, blogs,
and hands on exercises recommended
by Vira coders, across our
development security and product teams
from a just published page
Turner to classic frac articles.
There's something here for everyone
who is interested in becoming
more security minded. So dip
your toes in, or take
a deep dive visit www
dot Vira code that's V
E R a covid.com/reading that's
Vira code.com/reading in your talk
at lead dev New York. You
have a slide that says
the wrath of work ism.
I have never heard that
word work ism. Well work
is a miss is correlated
in some way with the
Protestant work ethic. And what
that, what that really is,
is talking about is, again,
that the, the value of
my humanity is tied to
my work, meaning that if
things are not going well
at my work, then they're
not going well in my
personal life. There, there is
a relationship, a, a tangible
relationship there. And what happens
is things at work sometimes
occur that are not the
best, and it has nothing
to do with me. You
know, the economy might take
a hit, or maybe a,
you know, a piece of
software that we're working with
may not do what we
wanted to do, but that
had nothing to do with
me. But since I'm so
correlated and tied into it,
it touches who I am.
And I feel less than
because my work is taking
a hit  and this
causes physical, not just this,
isn't just mental. Like you
can physically break your body.
You can burn burning down
illness. Like you can become
ill physically and, and, and
exacerbate underlying conditions. Yeah. Unfortunately
we live in a, in
a very stressed out society
and in a lot of
people, and a lot of
research was suggests it has
something to do with number
one, it's really a struggle
for people to have work
life balance. So if I'm
doing well at work, I'm
not doing well at home.
Or if I'm doing well
at home, I'm not doing
well at work. And the
quick example was that I'll
ask him one sometimes, Oh,
well, maybe you can come
home early. Well, he may
come home early and I'll
be happy, but his boss
may not be happy because
he is not finishing something
that needed to be finished.
Or his boss, Eddie fetal
work label. Then the boss
is happy, but then me
and the kids aren't happy.
So it's this, this constant
war that a lot of
people live under in terms
of illness, stress is the
root cause of a lot
of illnesses. People are dealing
with all types of challenges
and decreasing stress can help
provide health for your body
because the stress, something that
is Leighton. I know for
me, when I was getting
my dissertation and I was
working really, really hard, I
started grinding my teeth, Scott,
and I didn't even know
that it was happening. And
then I woke up and
finally, my, my job was
hurting and I went to
the dentist and that's what
was happening. And it was
stress and it was stressed
out. Even know that I
was experiencing. Cause once again,
I was doing what I
love. That was, I was
up all night. I was
engaged and I was used,
I was, you know, firing
on all cylinders, but it
took a toll on my
body over time. My goodness,
that sounds like there's also
a leadership issue there where
a leader needs to be
able to help their team
with burnout, but they might
be burned out themselves. So
then it's a vicious cycle.
Absolutely. And again, this, this
start, it's all about the
tone. It's the tone. It's
the tone at the top
on we value, we, we
appreciate our people. We want
people to live balanced lives,
or you could work somewhere
where your bosses, all they
care about is the work.
And you're just like, you
talked about it at the
very beginning. You know, you're
just a Cod you're, you're
just a piece in a
manufacturing system here, you know,
humanity is completely removed. So
the tone, the culture is
very powerful and plays a
huge role in this situation.
So when you're trying to
make an effective team and
efficient team, and you're trying
to inspire people and fuel
them where I have found
for myself that a leader
who is, who can give
a good pep talk, a
pep talk from my boss
can really get me going
for a couple of months,
which is amazing, like a
20 minute conversation about what
we're doing here at the
organization can fuel me for
a few months. And that's
really significant. But at the
same time, if a boss
is like, Can you just
take, you know, take, take
the weekend, whatever you need
to do That could also
breed negative behaviors where without
using, I don't know if
lazy is a bad word,
but you could imply that
the work doesn't matter at
all. Therefore people could start
being abusive with a program
of all there's unlimited vacation.
Take the time you need,
just get the work done.
How do you balance that?
Getting stuff done with not
burning out? Yeah, well, I'll
also, you know, have a
PhD in human resources. They
come together and, and I
would say the solution to
that is how you bring
people on. I mean, we
want to bring on the
best people, right? So we,
we interview people. We fly
people in. We make sure
that there's a connection that,
and really that there's a
passion for what people are
doing when you bring them
on. And if you have
people like that, I think
you're going to be hard
pressed to find people that
want to, you know, you
know, what do they say?
The, the mice will play
when the cats away? I
think a lot of there's
a theory X out there
in theory, X is really
a leadership style. That's command
and control. And they kind
of believe that way. But
a theory, Y leadership approach
is basically where I want
to empower people. And I
feel like people are creative
and they're innovative and they
want to do good work.
So that comment will be
taken completely different depending on
the type of that you're
hot that you hire. So
what's the solution. You hire
the best people, the people
who will have the skills
that are engaged and are
passionate, and they will not
want to take advantage of
any situation where they feel
like they're taking time off.
They're really genuinely going to
take that time off to
re refill that tank that
we were talking about, and
then continue to dive back
in and do the work
that they need to do.
So it sounds like the
leader really needs to think
about the behaviors that they
are modeling as well. And
if your boss looks and
exudes burnout and stressed out,
or they're sending emails to
you at 2:00 AM on a
Friday night, then they're not,
you know, it's one of
those do, as I say,
not as I do type
of situations and the organization
will notice that. Absolutely. Yeah,
definitely. We get our cues
from the top. No doubt
about it. Okay. So then
that implies that if you
are, but if you're being
compassionate, you're not trying to
say I'm letting you off
the hook, or I'm being
lazy as an organization. We
are literally creating a psychologically
safe place for, for the
worker. Yeah. And there there's
a construct in organizational paper
that is entitled is psychological
safety, what you just said.
And basically if I, if
I work somewhere and, and
things aren't going well, and
I feel concerned about communicating
that that is a sign
that either there's not a
good fit here, or we
need to have a conversation
or something needs to happen
to alter that because I
should be able to bring
my full self to work
and contribute and be a
part of the team That's
really significant. And I know
that sometimes in least in
the Western culture, we tried
to get around the idea
of, I, I want to
have a psychologically safe workplace
with this idea of the
open door policy, which implies
that anyone at any level
can just wander into a
boss's office and say, Hey,
I have a problem, which
sounds great on its face,
but it's self can be
a stressor because then you
feel like you only got
so many of those. I
don't want to be high
maintenance it's I could get
out of jail free card.
Like how many times can
I really wander into the
CEO's office? I don't, I
don't email Satya at Microsoft
every 20 minutes because you
know, we're out of free
soda pop. So them saying,
I have a open door
policy itself stresses me out.
Right? Absolutely. I understand what
you're saying. And what really,
what I hear you talking
about is the fact that
in many organizations, we have
a hierarchy, so smaller organizations
and in terms of structure
are flat. So if we
were a startup, you may
not feel that that anxiety
or anyone may not feel
the anxiety about going down
to the boss's office. Just
five of us here are
10 of us. What have
you. But as organizations grow,
we tend to establish hierarchy.
Human beings put established Archy
at anything. There's a heart
I'm on the PTO board.
There's a hierarchy there. So
the thing about that is
when you do have an
open door policy, we do
self-assess and say, is this
a meaningful thing to say,
or, or what have you,
but what we have to
do is decide, you know
what? This is something that's
key. This is something that
I really need to discuss.
Of course we don't want
to go in with, with
little things here and there.
But if there's something that
is really touching you or
something that's on your mind,
I think that having that
open door policy and utilizing
it when you need, it
is an important thing. And
your boss or your managers,
many times they want to
hear from you. I know
for me, I go in
and I talk to my
chair when things are on
my mind and I don't
bug him all the time,
but if there's something going
on and, and generally when
you have a healthy boss
or a healthy relationship, they're
pleased to see you and
they want to hear what
you have to say. All
right. Well, let me ask
a hard question then. Cause
I think this is one
that everyone's thinking, but no
one actually wants to say
out loud. Okay. When is
it appropriate to quit to
get away from burnout? That
is really a real question
because you know, life is
short, in my opinion, if
you ask me and I,
and I believe that if
you, you should do what
you love and the money
will follow up. That's another
one of my philosophies. And
the thing about is I
understand we have mortgages and
we have bills and we
do have to live, but
after you've tried to develop
your internal network, after you've
spent time, making sure that
you're building relationships and, and
going to, you know, different
events in your area, in
your field of study, you've
tried to, you know, have
yoga on campus. You've read
books, you've meditated, you've done
all these things and you're
still stressed out. You're still
not sleeping. Well, you're still
grinding your teeth or what
have you. Sometimes you do
have to pull yourself out
of the situation, hopefully after,
you know, saving some money
and really having some nice
fillers out there. But there
is a point if you
ask me, there is a
point where my health cause
to me, health as well.
And if my health has
taken such a strong hit,
then there may be an
opportunity or a time for
me to maybe do something
different than what I'm currently
doing. If it's just, if
it's becoming too much, but
again, organizations should want their
people to be healthy because
a healthy employee is going
to be doing healthy work.
They're going to be, you
know, providing healthy code. They're
going to be a healthy
team member. So it's, it's
not a negative thing. So
it's that, it's that reframing
of work and wellness and
balance that we need to
be having a discussion about
income in organization, Indeed. And
it seems like if a
good reason to leave would
be, if that is not
respected as a value, if
humans themselves and their humanity
is not respected as an
organization, then if you are
not enabled to fix that,
cause you're not at the
top, that's a good reason
to pull the ripcord. Absolutely.
Yeah. Changing your working environment,
I think can be really
overwhelming for, for someone and
not everyone has that luxury.
And I wouldn't have that
privilege to be able to
go and quit. That can
be a very, very stressful.
Absolutely no doubt about it.
So I'm hearing that you
shouldn't be too hard on
yourself. It is not like
burning out is not a
personal failing though. Like everyone
burns out. This is not
a thing where you just
take a nap and everything's
fine. You really have to
look inside yourself. Yeah. Again,
I know I'm giving a
lot of my little statements
here, but I allow myself
to be human. That's the
thing. And if I am
feeling tired, I'm tired. And
if I feel like I'm
giving my all, I've given
my all, and I know
that, and I can't let
anyone make me feel small
or that I am not,
you know, a respected person
because I need to take
a nap or take a
vacation or, you know, have
a break or what, what
have you. So yes, we
want to allow ourselves to
be human and, and really
build that relationship with your
boss as much as you
can, or with your team
as much as you can
so that they can see
you as a person and
not just a, you know,
output or, you know, a
contributor, but an actual human
being behind the work. I
think that's really important. Yeah.
That one has been interesting.
I've watched people on different
teams, at least at Microsoft
and IBM in big companies
that I've worked with where
some folks come to work.
Like you said, extroverts, go
out to get their energy.
They come to work and
they get energy from genuine
work friendships. While other people
say I didn't come to
work to make friendships. That's
also cultural. Some people go
to work, meet, meet friends,
and have barbecues with them
afterwards while others say, I
want to get the work
done. And I'm not interested
in being your friend. Absolutely.
And what that is is
you have to have healthy
boundaries that work for you.
That definitely that work for
some people is, is a
place to socialize and, and
really have friends that even
become family. And there's nothing
wrong with that. But what
it, what it is is
you have to make sure
that our, we have to
make sure that we get
involved in a situation that
works for us, because for
a person that wants that
healthy boundary and you try
to keep pulling them in
to be light family within,
that becomes stressful for them.
So really it's just about
respecting people and their personal
principles and values. I mean,
everyone's different. We have to
respect where people are coming
from. We're here to do
the job. And if you
want more than go for
it, if you need that
healthy boundary, then that's okay
too. You know, that really
hit me for a second
there because I have worked
at companies where someone was
like, we're all a family.
And I'm just like, you
know, I don't want to
be like, I like you
all, but I'm not your
family. Right, right. At home.
You're keeping me from them.
Exactly. Yes. Yes. Fantastic. Well,
thank you so much, dr.
Nneka Simmons for talking to
me about managing the burnout
burnout. Oh, it's been my
honor. I really enjoy talking
with you. Fantastic. I'm going
to have links to everything
in the show notes and
you can watch and want
and dr. Nneka Simmons talk
about managing burnout at lead
dev New York. It's the full
video of their talk. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and we'll see
you again next week. .